My mom always told me, I've always been a caregiver ever since I was a little girl.
It was just part of who I was.
I don't like to see people suffer, it's very difficult for me.
I remember when I first started working as a nurse, I would always cry.
I cried literally, I cried every day that I had to go to work.
Not only was I overwhelmed being a new nurse, but also I was bowing my depression.
I was feeling so sad, I really needed Jehovah's help to figure out what was going on with
me.
And I remember the 2009 article about depression came out and I realized, okay Jehovah,
you're telling me this is what I have.
So now that I realize I have this, I got to figure out how I can manage it.
So I changed my eating habits.
I started exercising a lot more.
I realized that exercising and eating healthy really, really did help.
Also I made a journal and I made different sections of the different aspects of my depression
that I dealt with.
In section, I would put scriptures, I would put articles and the illustrations, the pictures.
They speak, they speak a lot without saying anything.
Jehovah shares us, Jehovah cares, exercising, changing my diet, the publications, journaling.
That was my lifeline, that really actually helped me for a long time.
But it came to a point where it stopped working as effectively.
I remember getting ready for dress for the meeting and I was fine, getting dressed for
a meeting, about to walk off the door, but I couldn't, there was this overwhelming fear
that came over me and overwhelming sadness that came over me and I just lost it.
I just started crying, I couldn't get, I couldn't get myself together.
It was bad.
It got really bad.
My depression got really bad.
So it was very difficult for me to approach the brothers to ask them for help.
But at that time, I knew that if I didn't, that something bad would happen.
So I decided, you know what, I'm going to ask for a shepherd and call with my brothers
because I never talked about my depression with the elders at all.
This was my first time speaking with them.
And there was one brother, one of the elders who also battled depression.
And he suggested, have you thought about seeking medical help?
Seeking professional help was something I never wanted to do.
I thought that I didn't need to do it.
Sometimes there comes a point where you need additional help.
And what you're doing is not enough.
In this world, they make you feel like it's a bad thing that depression is a dirty word
or seeking medical help is something that you don't do.
But I realized also that seeking medical help was part of my being able to worship Jehovah
effectively.
That's me doing my part.
Not everyone needs to take that step, but for me, this is what I need to do.
And I'm glad I did it because the fact that I've never felt this good in my life.
At first, I started with one floor.
Then I went to another floor.
And then the whole entire hospital, every floor, had COVID patients.
That was some of the hardest nursing that I've ever done in my life.
And all my years of nursing.
And we lost a lot of good nurses that were right in the trenches with me that were in
there doing their best.
We lost a lot of good people.
Even though I was on medication to help me, it still didn't take the depression away.
You're like, what's the point?
I can't save anyone.
I can't help anyone.
It was devastating.
It truly, truly was devastating.
And at those times, I just cried to Jehovah, talked to Jehovah about how I'm feeling.
And disaster for his peace to help me to deal.
When I'm able to help people who are battling depression, I feel like Jehovah is using
me in that way.
And it makes me happy that I can be of use to Jehovah.
It's good to feel, it's so nice to feel good again, to feel happy again, to be able to
smile, to be able to take enjoyment in the small things in Jehovah's creation.
And just be happy that I'm alive.
So yeah.